Acetylene Reduction Assay:
- Used to test and organism’s ability to fix nitrogen [create ammonia (NH3)
  from nitrogen gas (N2)]
- A quantitative measure of ethylene gas (C2H4) using gas chromatography after
  an initial addition of acetylene gas (C2H2)
- Experiments are done in glass vials, sealed with rubber stoppers

My experiments:
Set: I had 4 different types of sample “sets” that I used (“M”,”NS”,”OS”,”NN”).
These refer to the individual cultures (e.g. NN was transferred on 2/10 into
liquid from a plate and grew for two week and then I measured it, while OS was
transferred on 10/22 and grew for a few months and then I measured it)

Sample: Throughout the year I had 10 different samples (“A1”,”A2”…”E2”).  A1
from set NN, is the same type of sample and from the same initial plate (not the
same exact bacterial growth) as A1 from NS, or OS. Set M had different samples
(V1, V2…) and

Reps: These all came from the same vial. The reps were 3 different syringes of
gas that were drawn from the vial and measured.

Time: Once acetylene was added cultures were left under light for x hrs. This
number varied from 4-316 hrs. A different time period for a the same sample in
the same set is actually the same vial, just measured at a later time.

Date: The day I stood at the GC and measured gas samples. Sometimes the GC
acted up, didn’t have a very consistent baseline. I would like to account for
this, but I don’t want to minimize the deviation that may have naturally come up
between the days of the experiment because different sets that were measured on
different days.

Controls: ETH=Ethylene standard, AV=A free-living bacteria that readily fixes
nitrogen (positive control), EC= A free-living bacteria that definitely does not
fix nitrogen. NEG=samples that only had liquid, no bacteria.

Potential error: Everything should have been prepared with sterile techniques,
but I could have been clumsy at some point. EC has some ethylene hits in a set
or two that it shouldn’t have. Alternatively, some syringes retain small bits of
gas from previous samples, and so maybe an older syringe wasn’t sterilized well.

What I want to say: From my casual observations during the experiment I didn’t
think there was any fixation in samples A1-E2. I expected fixation to occur in
at least some of the samples from the M set (V1 and V2). After seeing my data I
saw that D1 appeared to have some hits (as did EC though) and I’m just trying to
confirm whether or not I should say it fixed any ethylene, or if I should just
consider it noise from error. I want to have some numbers for this. I’m not
dying to see a significant p-value for D1 being different from other samples, I
just want to find good way to quantitatively compare D1 to other samples. The
best model, in my mind, would show that the moles of ethylene from EC and neg
was not significantly from 0 and the same time that the moles of D1 either was
or wasn’t significantly different from 0 moles.

What I’ve done: I’m looking at all the data by Set, because in the end these
were all different experiments (different environments, different cultures).
I’ve been relying on the phia pkg to use a mixed-effects model. I came to this
conclusion just by seeing example experiments, that seemed similar to mine.
Though I’m not very confident in my understanding of the statistical theory
behind any of these models to confirm that I am, or am not using the right one.
I’ve run an anova on this model, but in the end I don’t think that’s exactly
what I want, because I don’t want to identify one mean that differs from another
mean, I really want to consider the sample level, one by one if the mean differs
from 0, relative to the values for AV and ETH, which do differ from 0.




